feat: det.keras.DeterminedCallback (#10075)
determined-ai/determined: docs/model-dev-guide/api-guides/apis-howto/api-keras-ug.rst

.. meta::
   :description: Learn how to use the Keras API to train a Keras model. This user guide walks you through loading your data, defining the model, customizing how the model.fit function is called, checkpointing, and callbacks.

> In this guide, you'll learn how to use the Determined's keras.DeterminedCallback while training your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, you'll learn how to use the ``keras.DeterminedCallback`` while training your

keras model.

+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Visit the API reference                                             |
+=====================================================================+
| :ref:`keras-reference`                                              |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

This document guides you through training a Keras model in Determined.  You will need to update your
``model.fit()`` call to include a :class:`~determined.keras.DeterminedCallback` and submit it to
a Determined cluster.

To learn about this API, you can start by reading the ``train.py`` script in the `Iris
categorization example
<https://github.com/determined-ai/determined-examples/tree/main/computer_vision/iris_tf_keras>`__.

**********************
 Configure Entrypoint
**********************

Determined requires you to launch training jobs by submitting them with an

> :ref:`experiment-configuration` that tells the Determined master how to start your container.  For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`experiment-configuration` which tells the Determined master how to start your container. For
```

Author: question: don't you need a comma before "which", but not before "that"?

> Keras training, you will always want to wrap your training script in Determined's :ref:`TensorFlow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keras training, you should wrap your training script in Determined's :ref:`TensorFlow
```

Author: I'm saying "should always" because dropping the world "always" loses the significance of the statement.

The point is that you should do this _always_, without concern for what kind of training you are doing.  If we wrote "you should" then a reader could say, "oh well they're assuming that I want dtrain but I personally don't care so I can ignore this statement".

launcher <launch-tensorflow>`:

.. code:: yaml

   entrypoint: >-
     python3 -m determined.launch.tensorflow --
     python3 my_train.py --my-arg...

Determined's TensorFlow launcher will automatically configure your training script with the right

> ``TF_CONFIG`` environment variable for for distributed training when distributed resources are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``TF_CONFIG`` environment variable for distributed training when distributed resources are
```

available, and will safely do nothing when they are not.

****************************************************************
 Obtain a ``det.core.Context`` and a ``tf.distribute.Strategy``
****************************************************************

When using distributed training, TensorFlow requires you to create your ``Strategy`` early in the

> process lifetime, before creating your model.

Reviewer: is there a reason why Strategy is capitalized? is it a proper noun?

Author: Yes, it is a symbol name in tensorflow.  That's why it is an inline code block as well.

       distributed, strategy = det.core.DistributedContext.from_tf_config()
       with det.core.init(distributed=distributed) as core_context:
           main(core_context, strategy)

*****************
 Build the Model
*****************

Building a distributed-capable model is easy in keras; you just need to wrap your model building and
compiling in the ``strategy.scope()``.  See the `TensorFlow documentation
<https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/distribute/keras
#create_the_model_and_instantiate_the_optimizer>`__ for more detail.

.. code:: python

   def main(core_context, strategy):
       with strategy.scope():
           model = my_build_model()
           model.compile(...)

***********************************
 Create the ``DeterminedCallback``
***********************************

The :class:`~determined.keras.DeterminedCallback` will automatically integrate your training with
the Determined cluster.  It reports train and test metrics, it reports progress, it saves
checkpoints, and it uploads them to checkpoint storage.  It also handles preemption signals from the
Determined master (such as if you pause your experiment), shutting down training, then it restores

> training from where it left off when the experiment continues.

Reviewer: The :class:`~determined.keras.DeterminedCallback` automatically integrates your training with the Determined cluster. It reports both train and test metrics, reports progress, saves checkpoints, and uploads them to checkpoint storage. Additionally, it manages preemption signals from the Determined master (for example, when you pause your experiment), gracefully halting training and resuming from where it left off.

Author: I'm going to say:

```
gracefully halting training and *later resuming from where it left off
```

Because otherwise it sounds like, "wait why are you stopping and resuming as a result of a preemption signal?  Isn't the right action to just stop"?  The word "later" serves the purpose of my original "when the experiment continues" to indicate that there is some sort of trigger in between shutting down training and resuming.

Reviewer: makes sense

Reviewer: now there are redundant paragraphs

Author: doh.

The ``DeterminedCallback`` has only three required inputs:
   -  the ``core_context`` you already created
   -  a ``checkpoint`` UUID to start training from, or ``None``.

>    -  a ``continue_id`` used to decide how to treat the checkpoint.

Reviewer: inconsistent punctuation

Use commas and a period:

Intro sentence:
- the thing,
- the next thing, and
- the final thing.

or don't use any punctuation:

Intro sentence:
- the thing
- the next thing
- the final thing

In training jobs, a value for ``checkpoint`` should be obtained from
``det.get_cluster_info().latest_checkpoint``, which will automatically be populated with the latest

> checkpoint saved by this trial, if there is one.

Reviewer: is it "a value" or "the value"?

e.g.,

In training jobs, the value for ``checkpoint`` should be retrieved from ``det.get_cluster_info().latest_checkpoint``. This field will automatically contain the most recent checkpoint saved by the trial, if one exists.

Author: It is "a value", because users can put whatever checkpoint they want to restore from in there.

For instance, a user might want to have a starting checkpoint in mind, but also support pausing and resuming, they might want to use:

```
info.latest_checkpoint or my_starting_checkpoint
```

as the value.  I'll just elaborate on this sentence, it probably belongs in the user guide.

The ``continue_id`` helps the ``DeterminedCallback`` decide if the provided checkpoint represents
just the starting weights and training should begin at epoch=0, or if the checkpoint represents a
partially complete training that should pick up where it left off (at epoch > 0).  The provided
``continue_id`` is saved along with every checkpoint, and when loading the starting checkpoint, if
the ``continue_id`` matches what was in the checkpoint, training state is also loaded from the
checkpoint.  In training jobs, an easy value for ``continue_id`` is
``det.get_cluster_info.trial.trial_id``.

> See the reference for :class:`~determined.keras.DeterminedCallback` to see the optional parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the reference for :class:`~determined.keras.DeterminedCallback` for details on its optional parameters.
```

.. code:: python

   info = det.get_cluster_info()
   assert info and info.task_type == "TRIAL", "this example only runs as a trial on the cluster"

   det_cb = det.keras.DeterminedCallback(
       core_context,
       checkpoint=info.latest_checkpoint,
       continue_id=info.trial.trial_id,
    )

***********
 Load Data
***********

Loading data is done normally, though additional considerations may arise if your existing data

> loading code is not already container-ready.  See :ref:`load-model-data` for more information.

Reviewer: Loading data is done as usual, though additional considerations may arise if your existing data-loading code is not container-ready. For more details, see :ref:`load-model-data`.

> If you would like to take advantage Determined's distributed training, you may need to ensure that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to take advantage Determined's distributed training, you may need to ensure that
```

.. meta::
   :description: Learn how to use the Keras API to train a Keras model. This user guide walks you through loading your data, defining the model, customizing how the model.fit function is called, checkpointing, and callbacks.

In this guide, you'll learn how to use Determined's ``keras.DeterminedCallback`` while training your

> keras model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keras model.
```

available, and will safely do nothing when they are not.

****************************************************************
 Obtain a ``det.core.Context`` and a ``tf.distribute.Strategy``
****************************************************************

When using distributed training, TensorFlow requires you to create your ``Strategy`` early in the
process lifetime, before creating your model.

Since you wrapped your training script in Determined's TensorFlow launcher, you can use Determined's
``core.DistributedContext.from_tf_config()`` helper, which will create both a suitable
``DistributedContext`` and ``Strategy`` for the training environment in your training job.  Then you
can feed that ``DistributedContext`` to ``det.core.init()`` to get a ``core.Context``, and feed all
of that to your ``main()`` function (or equivalent) in your training script:

.. code:: python

   if __name__ == "__main__":
       distributed, strategy = det.core.DistributedContext.from_tf_config()
       with det.core.init(distributed=distributed) as core_context:
           main(core_context, strategy)

*****************
 Build the Model
*****************

> Building a distributed-capable model is easy in keras; you just need to wrap your model building and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building a distributed-capable model is easy in Keras; you just need to wrap your model building and
```

compiling in the ``strategy.scope()``.  See the `TensorFlow documentation
<https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/distribute/keras

> #create_the_model_and_instantiate_the_optimizer>`__ for more detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#create_the_model_and_instantiate_the_optimizer>`__ for more details.
```
